#  The Curriculum

Our application of the PWN philosophy to Linux education resulted in 108 challenges across 15 sub-modules. Each sub-module consists of 3 to 13 challenges, and each challenge explores one micro-concept, building up in aggregate to imbue the learner with Linux knowledge.

Our curriculum starts out with challenges that use a heavily instrumented shell session to explain the concept of Linux commands and arguments from a syntactic perspective (e.g., having the user run toy commands for practice). The next module introduces the Linux filesystem and the cd command to explore it. Each type of path (absolute paths, “naked” (no ./) and non-naked relative paths), is explored in its own challenge or series of challenges, minimizing the concepts conveyed per challenge. The next module explores a number of commands to help the learner start actually using the command line (ls, etc.). Then the Linux Luminarium covers the reading and search of documentation (using functionality of man, help, and `–help` flags). After this, we cover a series of increasingly complex topics such as file globbing, piping, setting and reading shell variables, and manipulating data. Then aspects of the Linux operating system itself are introduced: processes, permissions, users, and scripts. Finally, the curriculum ends on a series of culminating experiences, described below.

The PWN philosophy suggests that approaching concepts from an adversarial/security mindset enables unique insights into those concepts [[18](../references.md#ref18)]. We struggled adopting this part of the philosophy for much of the Linux Luminarium, as the concepts were simply too introductory to even discuss security. However, toward the end of the curriculum, after covering the topics described above, opportunities begin to arise, and we are able to use a series of security challenges to reinforce the concepts we’d previously taught.Specifically, these are:

**Cracking account passwords.** To drive home the concept of users and permissions, we have a series of challenges where learners must crack passwords of users created by the challenge. This is a fairly standard part of a Linux security curriculum but sets the stage for more advanced challenges.

**PATH hijack.** To convey how Linux finds programs to invoke, we teach about the PATH variable and have the user practice its hijacking to override common utilities and gain control of program execution (to retrieve the `/flag` file).

**.bashrc hijack.** To explore implications of incorrect file permissions, we have a series of challenges in which learners can hijack other user accounts by exploiting unsafe permissions to hijack the victim user’s .bashrc. This explores, through several challenges, bad file (`.bashrc`) permissions, the implications of unsafe directory permissions (e.g., world-writable home directory), and the effects of unsafe handling of symbolic links. We observed, and learners reported, that this improved both understanding of and passion for the material.

**Linux destruction.** Mistakes, though we try to minimize them throughout the rest of the Linux Luminarium, are often the best teacher. Most Linux veterans have, at some point, deleted something they did not mean to, overwhelmed their machine with errant processes, and so on. Observing the teaching potential of this, we created a series of challenges at the end of the curriculum in which learners intentionally carry out these “mistakes” to destroy their environment in various ways: `rm -rf /`, a fork bomb, and filling the disk.
