# Related Work

Linux Luminarium is not the first attempt to create a platform via which to teach Linux: other approaches have been proposed and implemented by educators and enthusiasts alike. These Linux education resources fall into two categories: interactive and non interactive. A plethora of non-interactive resources have been developed to teach Linux. These take the form of organized lessons [[21](references.md#ref21)], textbooks [[8](references.md#ref8), [13](references.md#ref13)], video collections, and countless Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). All of these tend to take the form of video or text lessons with suggested concepts for the learner to practice (e.g., “make a file and then find it using the find command”), lacking the structured feedback of Linux Luminarium.

Interactive resources can be further split into offline and online styles. In the former, the learner is presented with a virtual machine to download or install, or assumed to already have a Linux environment, and is encouraged to practice learned concepts in that VM [[1](references.md#ref1), [4](references.md#ref4), [9](references.md#ref9), [25](references.md#ref25)]. Unfortunately, this is suboptimal for two reasons. First, it presents a sort of chicken-and-egg problem: learners are assumed to be proficient enough in computing to install virtual machines, and in cases where they are not, cannot undertake the lesson. Second, the possibility of instructor instrumentation and measurement of success are extremely limited, a reason that, beyond first-stage Linux education, has recently driven education platforms online [[17](references.md#ref17)].

Online platforms benefit from ease of access, but are complex to implement for instructors and platform developers. A number of browser-accessible Linux environments have been created for non-educational purposes, typically as tech demos [[3](references.md#ref3), [10](references.md#ref10)], for use in software development [[20](references.md#ref20), [23](references.md#ref23)], or for later-stage education [[5](references.md#ref5), [6](references.md#ref6), [15](references.md#ref15), [17](references.md#ref17), [26](references.md#ref26), [27](references.md#ref27)]. Several have been created to enable direct practice of Linux concepts through a learner’s browser. This property is shared with Linux Luminarium, though the specifics of our pedagogical approach and materials differ.

**OverTheWire Bandit** [[19](references.md#ref19)] implements a Linux learning platform through a network-accessible virtual machine. Learners use a Secure Shell (SSH) client to connect and tackle challenges, with successful completion of a challenge culminating in the password for the next level. Bandit lacks both the turnkey access (requiring learners to set up SSH) and instrumented challenge feedback features of Linux Luminarium, and as a result its challenges take very large leaps: the very basics of commandline usage span fewer than 10 challenges, throwing learners into the thick of things quickly.

**linuxzoo** [[22](references.md#ref22)] provides GUI and Command-Line access to student dedicated Virtual Machines via the browser. Unlike Linux Luminarium, linuxzoo’s grading is done “on-demand”: when a learner achieves the goal of a lesson, they click the Check button to have the grading system check the state of the VM. This limits linuxzoo to less granular lessons, typically requiring external reading material to fill knowledge gaps, rather than the micro-concept approach of the Linux Luminarium.

**Webminal** [[29](references.md#ref29)] provides a web-accessible Linux terminal backed by a dedicated Linux instance and pairs this with community support to help overcome hurdles. Unlike Linux Luminarium, Webminal focuses on example-based learning: the learner is typically told what to execute and explained what the results mean, with the actual interaction mostly carried out to duplicate the lesson contents.
As shown by our survey, the challenge-based nature of the Linux Luminarium is a critical part of learning.

**uAssign** [[2](references.md#ref2)] proposed a containerized, web-accessible Linux terminal for Linux education. The authors focus predominantly on scalability and integration, and other than supporting parameterized randomization, do not discuss the design of the educational material itself, which is not available online. To the best of our knowledge, uAssign does not explore the granular lessons or the instrumented challenge feedback enabled by the Linux Luminarium.

**TermAdventure** [[24](references.md#ref24)] is a learner-hosted technique that instruments a shell session to turn their sessions into a text adventure game, letting them learn in the course of completing the game. The authors have open-sourced the core code of the tool, but not the implemented levels of the game, making it difficult to assess what level of instrumentation, beyond the directory-changing detection described in the paper, is possible. Conversely, the Linux Luminarium is centrally-hosted (and turnkey-accessible), supports extensive instrumentation, and provides open curricula for teaching most concepts in early Linux learning.

Finally, the Linux Luminarium far from the first CTF-inspired education platform [[7](references.md#ref7), [11](references.md#ref11), [14](references.md#ref14), [16](references.md#ref16), [18](references.md#ref18), [28](references.md#ref28)], but it is the first combining its unique features to enable seamless learning of Linux for learners around the world.
